[Music]
this is the opinions a show that brings
you a mix of voices from New York Times
opinion you've heard the news here's
what to make of
[Music]
it my name is Megan stack I write for
New York Times opinion I cover Foreign
Affairs I was a foreign correspondent
for a long time and I was based in
Moscow for 3
[Music]
years president Trump is coming into
office in January and he is inheriting a
war that will be almost 3 years old at
that point between Russia and
Ukraine it has been a
bloody really horrible
conflict the US has spent billions of
dollars supporting the Ukrainian
military nevertheless I think it is fair
to say that Ukraine is losing the War I
believe that at this point the only good
thing that can be done because we are
not going to send the kind of troops and
weapons that Ukraine needs is to look to
save lives and perhaps speed up what is
an inevitable
[Music]
ending Trump campaigned on promises to
put a swift end to this war in fact he
bragged that he would end it within 24
hours I know zalinski well I know Putin
well I would get that ended in a period
of you can break that deal 100% it would
be easy that deal would be easy there
are a lot of risks and there will be no
doubt some very ugly effects of a peace
settlement but Trump should do it
anyway I am personally very torn about
the American Ukrainian relationship
unlike a lot of the people who talk
about Ukraine I've spent a lot of time
there I have old ties to the country
through my family when I was a child we
had Ukrainian students come and live
with us I feel sick at what's happened
to Ukraine it's awful and there's no
there's just nothing you can say about
it to make it all
right I think in a pure moral sense we
should support Ukraine
I also do see the
tremendous risk of getting into a war
with
Russia what I think is very difficult to
justify is what we've actually
[Music]
done I think that the US should either
say to Ukraine yes we are supporting you
we are going to defend you we're going
to get you into NATO and if Russia
attacks that's it we are actually going
to end up in a war with Russia or I
think the US should talk to Ukraine
bluntly and talk to American voters
bluntly and say Ukraine is right we love
Ukraine we cannot afford to get into a
war with Russia and that is why we are
offering this specific amount of support
we're prepared to do this we're not
prepared to do that
[Music]
I think instead we have gotten into this
drift in the Ukraine war where we have
slowly slowly allowed Ukraine to do a
little bit more of this or we have
finally given Ukraine a specific type of
weapon that they have wanted to get and
we have withheld but then we'll finally
give it and the aid gets tangled up in
our domestic political debates and
frankly I don't think we have a clear
idea of what we are trying to
achieve I think that the US could use
some self-reflection on the idea that
essentially what we have done while
framing it as this very fome and
complete support and help for Ukraine
following the Russian invasion in
reality what we have done is we have
supported Ukraine enough to keep the war
going but we have not supported Ukraine
enough to win the
[Music]
war I don't know that we have any real
reason to see Trump as someone who's
deeply concerned about Ukrainian lives
or Ukraine's future
security but I think he
has he has a sense of himself as a deal
maker and he has a c an ego Drive where
he wants to be the one who comes in and
puts all these foreign leaders in their
place and sorts everything out and shows
that they don't dare to do anything
disruptive while he's in charge and I
think he is
so wetted to that vision of himself that
it will make him work very hard to make
a deal in
Ukraine I am concerned about his
fondness for Russia the way that he has
talked about Putin in the past but I do
think that Trump will push to make a
deal I think he overall is just not
afraid
to crash into the china shop and you
know break things and make people mad
and sort of upend all the status quo and
actually when it comes to a situation
that is as has entrenched in in my view
bad foreign policy habits and broken
promises and disappointment as the war
in Ukraine I'm not sure that that's an
entirely bad thing as much as I kind of
shudder to say
[Music]
it I think this war it is in many ways
an extension of this Dynamic that I've
seen for many years in covering Ukraine
covering Russia
which is that the
US involves itself in a way that makes
places like
Ukraine vulnerable to Russian attack we
say to Ukraine that we are going to
support them no matter what only to in
the end back away and we're not willing
to give that protection to the degree
that it would be needed when a real
crisis hits
when the Soviet Union fell Ukraine found
itself in possession of the world's
third largest nuclear Arsenal and it was
President Bill Clinton who was very
involved in convincing Ukraine to
dismantle the program sell the uranium
to Russia with an assurance that don't
worry we have got your back we're going
to you know guarantee your
security obviously those guarantees did
not end up being worth
anything later on in 2004 when ordinary
ukrainians stood up in protest against a
russia-backed
politician that turned into a broader
protest looking for a different future a
future where Ukraine would be aligned
with the west and Europe of course at
that time the Bush Administration loved
it Bush said to Ukraine at the time and
said publicly in multiple forums that
I'm going to help Ukraine get into NATO
I'm going to support Ukraine's bid to
join NATO Ukraine's going into NATO NATO
NATO NATO well that never
happened what is the end going to look
like uh we don't really know but
basically it's going to be terrible for
Ukraine I think almost no matter what
happens I think the US acknowledges the
righteousness and the Justice of the war
but at the end of the day we are not
going to save them we cannot risk
getting into what would really be
something closer to a World War III type
scenario by getting into a direct war
with Putin we are both nuclear powers
and it could be absolutely disastrous
for just Untold numbers of people
[Music]
if you like this show follow it on
Spotify apple or wherever you get your
podcasts this show is produced by Derek
Arthur Sophia Alvarez Boyd Baka derba
pheet Christina samuli and Jillian
Weinberger it's edited by Ki Pitkin
Allison Bru and Annie Rose strer
engineering mixing and original music by
Isaac Jones Sonia Herrero Pat mccusker
Carol saabo and aim Shapiro additional
music by amen sahota the fact check team
is Kate Sinclair Mary Marge locker and
Michelle Harris audience strategy by
Shannon Busta Christina samuli and
Adrien Rivera the executive producer of
times opinion audio is Annie Rose
dresser
[Music]